about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About Me
permalink: /about/
---

My name is Sharan Naribole and I am currently a PhD student at Rice University in the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering. I am a member of the [Rice Networks Group][rng] and my advisor is [Edward Knightly][knightly]. My research broadly focuses on designing protocols for next-generation Wireless Networks including millimeter-wave (60 GHz) communication and visible light communication. **I cleared my PhD Proposal in November 2016 and aim to graduate September - December 2017** :hourglass:

**I am highly interested in pursuing Data Science and Wireless Networking full-time positions after PhD.** I am currently a remote [Data Science Fellow (part-time) at NYC Data Science Academy][nyc-dsa-profile] (Dec 2016 - *Present*).

In this site, you can find me blogging on my grad school research, data science projects, internships, etc. :v:

[rng]: http://networks.rice.edu/
[knightly]: http://knightly.rice.edu/
[nyc-dsa-profile]: https://blog.nycdatascience.com/author/sharan-naribole/

Commit message:

Updated CV, about me and research pages

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About Me
permalink: /about/
---

My name is Sharan Naribole and I am currently a PhD student at Rice University in the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering. I began grad school in the Fall 2012 semester right after graduating from Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur with a Bachelors (Hons.) degree in Electronics & Electrical Communication Engineering. I am a member of the [Rice Networks Group][rng] and my advisor is [Edward Knightly][knightly]. My research broadly focuses on designing networking algorithms for next-generation wireless technologies including millimeter-wave (60 GHz) communication and visible light communication. Data scientist, for me, is the perfect amalgamation of intellectual curiosity, programming skills and communication skills. In each of the above skills, I have gained strong experience through cutting-edge research projects with international peer-reviewed publications and public speaking about my research in competitions.

According to Eric Schmidt, former CEO of Google, every two days humans create as much data as all of humanity before 2003. I am inspired by how this sudden surge of data is driving the key decisions made by corporations as well as governments. In December 2016, I became a remote [Data Science Fellow at NYC Data Science Academy][nyc-dsa-profile]. This opportunity helped me work on independent data science projects using state-of-the-art tools in R and Python. A key highlight is the H-1B Visa dataset that I curated from raw data available publicly. My insights got published on R-Bloggers platform and my dataset got selected as “Dataset of the Week” on Kaggle platform.

 **I cleared my PhD Proposal in November 2016 and aim to graduate by December 2017** :hourglass: **I am highly interested in pursuing Data Science and Wireless Networking full-time positions after PhD.** 

In this site, you can find me blogging on my grad school research, data science projects, internships, etc. :v:

[rng]: http://networks.rice.edu/
[knightly]: http://knightly.rice.edu/
[nyc-dsa-profile]: https://blog.nycdatascience.com/author/sharan-naribole/
