research.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Research
permalink: /research/i
---

**Areas of interest**
=======

Currently an active contributor to IEEE 802.11 standards development activities with particular focus on **IEEE 802.11be technologies: multi-channel/multi-band operation and multi-AP coordination**. My PhD research focused on designing cross-layer MAC-PHY algorithms for 60 GHz WLANs and joint Visible Light communication and RF WLANs. My Masters thesis focused on mobility management and service quality management of heterogeneous cellular networks.

**Publications**
=======
- S. Naribole, S. Kandala,  W. Lee, A. Ranganath, "Simultaneous Multi-Channel Downlink Operation in Next Generation WLANs," *to appear* in Proceedings of IEEE GLOBECOM, Taipei, Taiwan, December 2020. ([paper](https://github.com/sharan-naribole/sharan-naribole.github.io/blob/master/pdfs/globecom_2020_nstr_paper.pdf))

- S. Naribole, W. Lee, S. Kandala, A. Ranganath, "Simultaneous Transmit-Receive Multi-Channel Operation in Next Generation WLANs," in Proceedings of IEEE WCNC, Seoul, South Korea, April 2020. ([paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9120641))

- S. Naribole and E. Knightly, "LiSCAN: Visible Light Uni-Directional Control Channel for Uplink Radio Access," in Proceedings of IEEE WCNC, Seoul, South Korea, April 2020. ([paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9120511))

- S. Naribole, W. Lee and A. Ranganath, "Impact of MU EDCA channel access on IEEE 802.11ax WLANs," in Proceedings of IEEE VTC Fall, Honolulu, US, September 2019. ([paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8891575))

- S. Naribole, "Enhanced WLAN Performance with New Spectrum at 60 GHz and Visible Light," Ph.D. Thesis, May 2018. ([thesis](https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/105616))

- S. Naribole and E. Knightly, "Scalable Multicast in Highly-Directional 60 GHz WLANs," in IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, July 2017. ([paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7968480/))

- S. Naribole, S.Chen, E. Hang, E. Knightly, "LiRa: a WLAN architecture for Visible Light Communication with a Wi-Fi uplink," in Proceedings of IEEE SECON, San Diego, US, June 2017. ([paper](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7964932/) and [slides](http://networks.rice.edu/files/2017/06/SECON_FINAL-1go19fh.pdf))

- S. Naribole and E. Knightly, "Scalable Multicast in Highly-Directional 60 GHz WLANs," in Proceedings of IEEE SECON, London, UK, June 2016. ([paper](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7733014/), [slides](http://networks.rice.edu/files/2016/07/SECON_SDM_sharan-2257bi8.pdf) and [1-min video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-bieBfboWNA))

- S. Naribole, "Small Cells and Mobile Clients: a Measurement Study of an Operational Network," Masters Thesis, December 2014. ([thesis](https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/88374),[abstract](https://scholarship.rice.edu/bitstream/handle/1911/88374/sharan_MS_abstract_final.pdf))

- J. Chen, S. Quadri, L. Pollonini, S. Naribole, J. Ding, Z. Zheng, E. Knightly, and C. Dacso, "Blue Scale: Early Detection of Impending Congestive Heart Failure Events via Wireless Daily Self-Monitoring," in Proceedings of IEEE EMBS Special Topic Conference on Healthcare Innovation and Point-of-Care Technologies, Seattle, WA, October 2014. ([paper](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7038875/))​

**IEEE 802.11 Standards Contributions**
=======
- TGbe 11-20/977, "MLD Spatial Multiplexing Considerations," August 2020.  ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/20/11-20-0977-02-00be-mld-spatial-multiplexing-considerations.pptx))

- TGbe 11-20/370, "Multi-link Power Save Discussion," May 2020. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/20/11-20-0370-01-00be-multi-link-power-save-discussion.pptx))

- TGbe 11-20/277, "Shared TXOP Operation," April 2020. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/20/11-20-0277-01-00be-coordinated-ofdma-protocol.pptx))

- TGbe 11-20/226, "MLO Constraint Indication and Operating Mode," March 2020. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/20/11-20-0226-05-00be-mlo-constraint-indication-and-operating-mode.pptx))

- TGbe 11-19/1836, "Multi-link Channel Access Discussion Follow-up," January 2020. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/19/11-19-1836-04-00be-multi-link-channel-access-follow-up.pptx))

- TGbe 11-19/1505, "Multi-link Aggregation Considerations," September 2019. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/19/11-19-1505-01-00be-multi-link-aggregation-considerations.pptx))

- TGbe 11-19/1451, "Virtual BSS for Multi-AP Coordination Follow up," September 2019. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/19/11-19-1451-01-00be-virtual-bss-for-multi-ap-coordination-follow-up.pptx))

- TGbe 11-19/1405, "Multi-link Channel Access Discussion," September 2019. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/19/11-19-1405-01-00be-multi-link-operation-channel-access-discussion.pptx))

- TGbe 11-19/824, "Multi-band Operation Performance," July 2019. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/19/11-19-0824-03-00be-multi-band-operation-performance.pptx))

- EHT TIG/SG 11-19/360, "MAC Architectures for EHT Multi-band Operation," March 2019. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/19/11-19-0360-00-0eht-mac-architectures-for-eht-multi-band-operation.pptx))

- TGax 11-18/1827, "6 GHz operation for 11ax follow up", Jan 2019. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/18/11-18-1827-01-00ax-6-ghz-operation-for-11ax-follow-up.pptx))


**Posters**
=======

- S. Naribole, J. Zhang and E. Knightly, "Closing the Loop with Light and Radio," ECE Affiliates Day, Poster, Rice University, April 2016.

- S. Naribole, J. Chen, and E. Knightly, "Mobility-Aware Multicast in mm-Wave WLANs," ECE Affiliates Day, Rice University, March 2015. ([poster](http://nsharan.blogs.rice.edu/files/2015/04/mmWave_Multicast_2015_poster.pdf))

- J. Chen, J. Classen, A. Flores, Y. G. Pour, K. Haider, Y. Mu, S. Naribole, D. Steinmetzer, E. Knightly, and M. Hollick, "Next Generation Millimeter-Wave Wireless Communications: Achieving Multi-Gigabit Data Rates," ECE Affiliates Day, Rice University, March 2015. ([poster](http://nsharan.blogs.rice.edu/files/2015/04/60GHzRice_Group_Poster.pdf))

- L. Pollonini, S. Quadri, J. Chen, J. Ding, Z. Zheng, S. Naribole, K. McArthur, E. Knightly and C. Dacso, "Blue Scale: a Multi-Sensing Device for Remote Management of Congestive Heart Failure," in IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBC 2014), Late-Breaking Research Poster Presentation, Chicago, IL, August 2014. ([paper](http://networks.rice.edu/files/2014/08/BlueScale.pdf) and  [poster](http://nsharan.blogs.rice.edu/files/2014/10/EMBC-2014-Pollonini-36x56-final.pptx))

Commit message:

IEEE ICC 2021 paper accept update

research.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Research
permalink: /research/i
---

**Areas of interest**
=======

Currently an active contributor to IEEE 802.11 standards development activities with particular focus on **IEEE 802.11be technologies: multi-channel/multi-band operation and multi-AP coordination**. My PhD research focused on designing cross-layer MAC-PHY algorithms for 60 GHz WLANs and joint Visible Light communication and RF WLANs. My Masters thesis focused on mobility management and service quality management of heterogeneous cellular networks.

**Publications**
=======
- S. Naribole, S. Kandala and A. Ranganath, "Multi-Channel Mobile Access Point in Next Generation IEEE 802.11be WLANs," accepted to IEEE ICC, Montreal, Canada, June 2021.

- S. Naribole, S. Kandala,  W. Lee, A. Ranganath, "Simultaneous Multi-Channel Downlink Operation in Next Generation WLANs," in Proceedings of IEEE GLOBECOM, Taipei, Taiwan, December 2020. 

- S. Naribole, W. Lee, S. Kandala, A. Ranganath, "Simultaneous Transmit-Receive Multi-Channel Operation in Next Generation WLANs," in Proceedings of IEEE WCNC, Seoul, South Korea, April 2020. ([paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9120641))

- S. Naribole and E. Knightly, "LiSCAN: Visible Light Uni-Directional Control Channel for Uplink Radio Access," in Proceedings of IEEE WCNC, Seoul, South Korea, April 2020. ([paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9120511))

- S. Naribole, W. Lee and A. Ranganath, "Impact of MU EDCA channel access on IEEE 802.11ax WLANs," in Proceedings of IEEE VTC Fall, Honolulu, US, September 2019. ([paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8891575))

- S. Naribole, "Enhanced WLAN Performance with New Spectrum at 60 GHz and Visible Light," Ph.D. Thesis, May 2018. ([thesis](https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/105616))

- S. Naribole and E. Knightly, "Scalable Multicast in Highly-Directional 60 GHz WLANs," in IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, July 2017. ([paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7968480/))

- S. Naribole, S.Chen, E. Hang, E. Knightly, "LiRa: a WLAN architecture for Visible Light Communication with a Wi-Fi uplink," in Proceedings of IEEE SECON, San Diego, US, June 2017. ([paper](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7964932/) and [slides](http://networks.rice.edu/files/2017/06/SECON_FINAL-1go19fh.pdf))

- S. Naribole and E. Knightly, "Scalable Multicast in Highly-Directional 60 GHz WLANs," in Proceedings of IEEE SECON, London, UK, June 2016. ([paper](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7733014/), [slides](http://networks.rice.edu/files/2016/07/SECON_SDM_sharan-2257bi8.pdf) and [1-min video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-bieBfboWNA))

- S. Naribole, "Small Cells and Mobile Clients: a Measurement Study of an Operational Network," Masters Thesis, December 2014. ([thesis](https://scholarship.rice.edu/handle/1911/88374),[abstract](https://scholarship.rice.edu/bitstream/handle/1911/88374/sharan_MS_abstract_final.pdf))

- J. Chen, S. Quadri, L. Pollonini, S. Naribole, J. Ding, Z. Zheng, E. Knightly, and C. Dacso, "Blue Scale: Early Detection of Impending Congestive Heart Failure Events via Wireless Daily Self-Monitoring," in Proceedings of IEEE EMBS Special Topic Conference on Healthcare Innovation and Point-of-Care Technologies, Seattle, WA, October 2014. ([paper](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7038875/))​

**IEEE 802.11 Standards Contributions**
=======
- TGbe 11-20/977, "MLD Spatial Multiplexing Considerations," August 2020.  ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/20/11-20-0977-02-00be-mld-spatial-multiplexing-considerations.pptx))

- TGbe 11-20/370, "Multi-link Power Save Discussion," May 2020. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/20/11-20-0370-01-00be-multi-link-power-save-discussion.pptx))

- TGbe 11-20/277, "Shared TXOP Operation," April 2020. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/20/11-20-0277-01-00be-coordinated-ofdma-protocol.pptx))

- TGbe 11-20/226, "MLO Constraint Indication and Operating Mode," March 2020. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/20/11-20-0226-05-00be-mlo-constraint-indication-and-operating-mode.pptx))

- TGbe 11-19/1836, "Multi-link Channel Access Discussion Follow-up," January 2020. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/19/11-19-1836-04-00be-multi-link-channel-access-follow-up.pptx))

- TGbe 11-19/1505, "Multi-link Aggregation Considerations," September 2019. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/19/11-19-1505-01-00be-multi-link-aggregation-considerations.pptx))

- TGbe 11-19/1451, "Virtual BSS for Multi-AP Coordination Follow up," September 2019. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/19/11-19-1451-01-00be-virtual-bss-for-multi-ap-coordination-follow-up.pptx))

- TGbe 11-19/1405, "Multi-link Channel Access Discussion," September 2019. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/19/11-19-1405-01-00be-multi-link-operation-channel-access-discussion.pptx))

- TGbe 11-19/824, "Multi-band Operation Performance," July 2019. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/19/11-19-0824-03-00be-multi-band-operation-performance.pptx))

- EHT TIG/SG 11-19/360, "MAC Architectures for EHT Multi-band Operation," March 2019. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/19/11-19-0360-00-0eht-mac-architectures-for-eht-multi-band-operation.pptx))

- TGax 11-18/1827, "6 GHz operation for 11ax follow up", Jan 2019. ([slides](https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/18/11-18-1827-01-00ax-6-ghz-operation-for-11ax-follow-up.pptx))


**Posters**
=======

- S. Naribole, J. Zhang and E. Knightly, "Closing the Loop with Light and Radio," ECE Affiliates Day, Poster, Rice University, April 2016.

- S. Naribole, J. Chen, and E. Knightly, "Mobility-Aware Multicast in mm-Wave WLANs," ECE Affiliates Day, Rice University, March 2015. ([poster](http://nsharan.blogs.rice.edu/files/2015/04/mmWave_Multicast_2015_poster.pdf))

- J. Chen, J. Classen, A. Flores, Y. G. Pour, K. Haider, Y. Mu, S. Naribole, D. Steinmetzer, E. Knightly, and M. Hollick, "Next Generation Millimeter-Wave Wireless Communications: Achieving Multi-Gigabit Data Rates," ECE Affiliates Day, Rice University, March 2015. ([poster](http://nsharan.blogs.rice.edu/files/2015/04/60GHzRice_Group_Poster.pdf))

- L. Pollonini, S. Quadri, J. Chen, J. Ding, Z. Zheng, S. Naribole, K. McArthur, E. Knightly and C. Dacso, "Blue Scale: a Multi-Sensing Device for Remote Management of Congestive Heart Failure," in IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBC 2014), Late-Breaking Research Poster Presentation, Chicago, IL, August 2014. ([paper](http://networks.rice.edu/files/2014/08/BlueScale.pdf) and  [poster](http://nsharan.blogs.rice.edu/files/2014/10/EMBC-2014-Pollonini-36x56-final.pptx))
